# Information about editing and building the PouchDB website

- The PouchDB website is an [eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/) site that lives in the `/docs` folder.
- You build it with `$npm run build-site`. This will start a dev server of sorts, with the site running at [localhost:4000](htt://localhost:4000). The site will rebuild if you change any template or style files. You still need to refresh the browser yourself. The site is built into `/docs/_site`.
- Deployment is automatic, whatever lands in the `master` branch is deployed by a github workflow.

## How to update docs for a new feature

When you write a new PouchDB feature, document it in `/docs/version/latest`. This will become part of the `stable` docs as soon as the next release is cut.

## How to update the docs for a new PouchDB release

When you cut a new PouchDB release, complete this checklist:

- [ ] Add the new version to the `/docs/_data/versions.js` file
- [ ] _Copy_ (not rename) the `/docs/version/latest` folder to `/docs/version/<newPouchDBVersion>`

That’s it.

## Documentation Structure

The site has versioned docs as of 2026. This means that parts of the site are different depending on which version you’re looking at them for: the `api` section, the `guides` section, and the `learn` section. Basically everything that isn’t the start page or the blog. These docs are written by hand, not autogenerated from the PouchDB source. So whenever you change PouchDB itself, you also need to update the docs.

We define the documented versions in `/docs/_data/versions.js`. This makes two global vars available:
- `versions.all`: an array of versions we have different docs for, e.g. `['7.0.0', '8.0.0', '9.0.0']`
- `versions.stable`: the version number of the last release, e.g. `9.0.0`

Versioned docs are kept in `/docs/version/<versionNumber>`, and we version like this:

- `latest`: Lives in `/docs/version/latest`. This is a special folder that isn’t tied to a release. All doc updates that concern the _next_ release must be made in here.
- Versioned docs, for example those for version `10.0.0` live in `/docs/version/10.0.0`. This folder should be created as part of the `10.0.0` release and is simply a copy of `/docs/version/latest`. This means over time there will be `/docs/version/9.0.0`, `/docs/version/10.0.0`, `/docs/version/10.1.0` and so on.
- `stable`: Another special case. This lives nowhere in the site source, but is generated by Eleventy at build time. It takes the contents of `/docs/version/<versions.stable>`, and copies them over to `/`, so the docs at the root of the site are always for the most recent (stable) release. This also preserves any existing links to the unversioned docs we used to have.

This means that if `versions.stable` is `9.0.0`:

- `http://pouchdb.com/api.html` displays `/docs/version/9.0.0/api.html`
- `http://pouchdb.com/guides/setup-couchdb.html` displays `/docs/version/9.0.0/guides/setup-couchdb.md`
- `http://pouchdb.com/version/7.0.0/guides/setup-pouchdb.html/` displays `/docs/version/7.0.0/guides/setup-couchdb.md`

To make this re-use of the stable docs possible, we need to jump through two hoops:
1. Generate the root-level docs from version docs, this is done in `/docs/stable.liquid` and utilises [11ty’s pagination feature](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/pages-from-data/) to iterate over the stable version docs and output them in root.
2. All sidebar links at root level need to be modified to strip the `/version/<versionNumber>` fragment, this is done with the `makeURLForStable` filter in `/eleventy.config.js`.